---
title: Community Growth
tags: ["pmc","committers","community"]
---

Growing your project community takes work. This document makes practical
suggestions of how to encourage people to get involved in your project.

## Publish a roadmap

Volunteers can work on whatever they want, and so we have a tendency to
not want to tell them what to work on. However, publishing a roadmap, or
even a wishlist of features or improvements that are desired, can give
people an idea of where they might be able to get involved.

This also gives a clear sense that the project has ambitions, and is
going somewhere, rather than that it is stagnating.

It can be very challenging to keep a roadmap current. Having a mechanism
for tagging open issues with `proposal` or `roadmap` and
automatically extracting that into a web page can help with this.

## Periodically publish the open issue list

Your ticket tracker allows you to periodically summarize the open
issues. Sending this to the dev@ list reminds people that there are
things to work on, and gives them permission, and encouragement, to do
so.

Consider creating [good first
issues](/committers/good-first-issues.html) as a place for new
contributors to get started.

## Clearly document contribution processes

Double-check that your "how to contribute / build / test / submit PR"
documentation is super clear and easy to follow.  Long-time committers
on a project often forget all the institutional knowledge they just
"know", so ensuring the "getting started" document actually works
for newcomers is always worth looking at.

Encourage newcomers to talk about, and document, their pain points
during their first contributions, and work towards fixing, or at least
documenting, those things.

## Publish your contributor ladder

A [contributor ladder](/contributor-ladder.html) is a description of
various levels of access and responsibility a contributor can progress
through in your project. This is typically the path from contributor, to
committer, to PMC member.

Explicitly publish your requirements for each step. For example, if you
require ten non-trivial patches accepted, or perhaps 3 months of
involvement, document this on your website so that people don't feel
that it's random, or that they are driving in the dark.

Consider lowering your bar to entry. Remember that while the risk of
inviting someone "too early" is that they'll break something, that's why
you have version control - so you can revert those changes. However, the
risk of inviting someone too late is that they'll give up and go away
forever.

## Engage with big users

If you are aware of companies that rely on your project, encourage them
to think about what they would do if the project retired. This often
leads to those companies realizing the value they get "for free", and
starting to contribute in some way.

## Be transparent about project risk

If your project is actually at risk of retiring due to lack of community
engagement, be transparent about this. Tell your dev and user lists
about the risk, and tell them specifically where you need help. 

While many users are content to simply consume, when they become aware
that the project is at risk, it often inspires people to think about
ways they can get involved.

## Come talk to us

You're always welcome to come talk to the Community Development project,
for advice and resources. We don't always have all of the answers, but
we can help you think about the problem, and suggest possible solutions.

Engage with one of our [working groups](/workinggroups/) to help
implement some of the above advise.


